docs(replication): Add docs for ETL (#35649)
supabase/supabase: apps/docs/content/guides/database/replication/etl.mdx

---
title: ETL
description: Replicate your Supabase database to external destinations
---

> `pg_replicate` simplifies the process of syncing your data to an external destination. This could be another database, a data warehouse, or a specialized service such as customer management or business analytics software.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`ETL` simplifies the process of syncing your data to an external destination. This could be another database, a data warehouse, or a specialized service such as customer management or business analytics software.
```

<Admonition type="caution">

> `pg_replicate` is currently in alpha.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`ETL` is currently in alpha.
```

</Admonition>

Syncing requires a source and a destination. The source is your Supabase database, defined in the [**Publications**](https://supabase.com/dashboard/project/_/database/publications) section of the dashboard.

The destination is a third party location, defined in the [**Replication**](https://supabase.com/dashboard/project/_/database/replication) section of the dashboard. See the [supported destinations](#destinations).

## Sources

Choose what data to sync by creating a publication in your database. A publication is a set of changes, filtered by table and change type.

### Managing publications

1. Go to the [Database](https://supabase.com/dashboard/project/_/database/tables) page in the Dashboard.
2. Click on **Publications** in the sidebar.

> 3. Control which database events to send by toggling **Insert**, **Update**, and **Delete**.

Reviewer 2: We should probably omit this step because replication in our case will work only when all `insert`, `update` and `delete` events are propagated, even though Postgres allows users to pick them.

4. Control which tables broadcast changes by selecting **Source** and toggling each table.

<video width="99%" muted playsInline controls={true}>
  <source
    src="https://xguihxuzqibwxjnimxev.supabase.co/storage/v1/object/public/videos/docs/api/api-realtime.mp4"
    type="video/mp4"
  />
</video>

## Destinations

Currently available destinations:

- [BigQuery](#bigquery)

### BigQuery

#### Prerequisites

Before setting up replication to BigQuery, you need:

1. A [Google Cloud Platform (GCP)](https://cloud.google.com/gcp) account
2. A [BigQuery dataset](https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/datasets-intro) in your GCP project
3. A [GCP service account key](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/keys-create-delete) in JSON format

#### Configuring BigQuery replication

1. Navigate to the [Database](https://supabase.com/dashboard/project/_/database/tables) section in your Supabase Dashboard and select the **Replication** tab.
2. Click **Add destination** to open the New Destination panel.

> 3. Click **Enable**.

Reviewer 2: Enable is on by default, so don't need to explicitly click it.

4. Configure the replication settings:
   - **Name**: Enter a descriptive name for your replication destination
   - **Publication**: Select an existing publication or create a new one
   - **Type**: Select "BigQuery" from the destination types
   - **Project Id**: Enter the GCP project ID
   - **Project's Dataset Id**: Enter the ID of the BigQuery dataset
   - **Service Account Key**: Enter your GCP service account key
5. Review the [Advanced Settings](#advanced-settings) to change the limits for the replication.

- **Max size**: Changes are sent in batches. Max size limits the size of an individual batch.
- **Max fill seconds**: Number of seconds after which a batch should be sent, even if it hasn't reached the max size.
- **Max staleness**: See BigQuery's [`max_staleness`](https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/change-data-capture#manage_table_staleness) option

6. Click **Create** to start the replication process.

> ## Monitoring replication

Reviewer: Maybe also specify that the dataflow is delayed because of ingestion latency in BigQuery.

After setting up replication, data begins flowing within a few minutes. You can monitor the replication status and review any errors directly from the [Supabase Dashboard](https://supabase.com/dashboard/project/_/database/replication) and clicking the **View status** button for a replication. In status view for the replication pipeline, you can also view logs by clicking the **View logs** button.

## Limitations

> - Large values stored as [TOASTed values](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/storage-toast.html) are not replicated.

Reviewer: TOAST values are replicated, there are only limitations on updates. @imor could you maybe elaborate better the current limitations?

Reviewer 2: For BQ there's a limit of 10MB payload and the actual value could be even smaller. So we'll have to keep it here but probably could rephrase and clarify. There are many other limitations as well:

- No support for picking event types to replicate. We need all insert, update and delete events.
- No column lists and row filter conditions support.
- No partitioned tables support.
- No generated columns support.
- No support for changing schema in the source.
- Tables should have a primary key set.
